# Route 15

A fun, real-time multiplayer game with players competing as either route breakers or route finders on a 7x7 interactive grid. I originally developed Route 15 as a pen and paper game in further mathematics A-level where it recieved overwhelmingly positive reviews, and have recently decided to implement my knowledge of full-stack developement in order to rediscover the game in the form of a multiplayer web application. I have used Javascript, HTML, CSS and Node.js for backend development, along with Socket.IO for low-latency updates between players. I hope to eventually implement a database using MongoDB or mySQL to save, rank and match players of a similar level. Developement is still in progress as I hope to eventually host the app on an online server and ideally make it available for public use.

HOW TO PLAY: 

Route 15 can be played in two player roles: route "finder" and route "breaker. The goal of the game for the route finder is to build a "route" from the bottom row of the grid to the top left corner that adds up to 15. The goal of the game for the route breaker is to prevent the route finder from achieving this goal. In the application both players have a similar user interface except that the route finder has access to 2 additional buttons for finding and verifying a "route". Each player has a set time limit. The route finder is given 3 minutes to build a successful route with the clock stopping any time it is not their turn. If the finder fails to find a route that qualifies as a route 15 within 3 minutes the breaker wins. The breaker on the other hand has 15 seconds per move which auto renews every turn. However if they fail to play within the 15 seconds alloted they lose their turn. 

Each player on their turn has the choice to play a 1 or a 2 and accompanying X on any empty squares on the grid. A 2 cannot be played unless an adjacent square to where the two is being played is filled with an X. To end their turn the end turn button should be pressed which locks in a players move and updates the grid for the other player. 

To build a route, the route finder must press the "Find route" button. Their time will then be automatically set to 15 seconds to highlight a route and verify its validity. If the clock runs out before a route is verified the breaker wins. To build the route the finder must start on the bottom row of the grid. A square with a 1 can connect to the next square in the route ONLY adjacently. A a square with a 2 can connect to the next square in the route ONLY diagonally. For the route to be valid it must add up to 15 AND conect to the top left corner in a valid way. If a one occupies the last square in the route it must be ADJACENT to the top left square. If a two occupies the last square in the route it must be diagonal to the top left square. The finder will click through all the squares in the route which will highlight them. They will then press the "Verify Route" button. If the route is valid and is verified within the 15 seconds alloted to the finder, the route finder wins! If a route is invalid and the "Verify route" button is pressed, the route will be cleared and the finder can try again until their time runs out. 

